# CS 4318 Project - Compiler Construction - Fall 2024
## Purpose of the Project
This was my project for CS 4318 - Compiler Construction. It was a project split into 4 parts, where in the end we would have a built in monkeyC compiler that would take monkeyC code and compile it into assembly code.

### Assignment 01
Assignment 1's goal was to build the scanner for the compiler.
Here we had to write the scanner and the tokendef files in lex using regular expressions where
the scanner would take written code and break it into tokens and make those tokens into lexemes to be used later by the parser.

### Assignment 02
Assignment 2's goal was to build the parser for the compiler.
Here we had to write the whole parser logic using yacc that will take the tokens generated by the scanner,
and that will be used later by the semantic analyzer and code generator.
Here we also had to build the AST and the symbol table that would be used later on.

### Assignment 03
Assignment 3's goal was to build the semantyc analyzer for the compiler.
Here we improved the symbol table and AST so that the compiler would be able to use them to detect and handle errors in the program
related to scoping rules and type mismatch.

### Assignment 04
Assignment 4's goal was to build the code generator for the compiler.
Here the we would take the AST generated by the parser and use it to write assembly code
that was derived from monkeyC code, so that it could be interpreted by MIPS.
The compiler is able to generate code for the following language constructs of mC:
   1. expressions
   2. assignment statements
   3. conditional statements
   4. iterative statements
   5. functions

## Running the code
This code is only able to run in a linux machine, and to run it you will need lex/yacc or flex/bison.
To run it in lex/yacc you can run it with **./obj/mcc ./tests/cases/testArith.mC > out.s**
To print out the ast or symbol table you will need to provide the correspondint **--ast** or **--sym** arguments respectively.
